---
layout: post
title:  "ILE CiCd - Part 4 - RPGLE Linting"
date:   2023-05-08
excerpt: Building a full CiCd pipeline for ILE - Part 4 - Using RPGLE Linting to format and define rules for your code.
author: john-weirich
draft: false
seo:
  title: ILE CiCd - Part 4 - RPGLE Linting
  description:
  image: cicd_cropped.png
images: # relative to /src/assets/images/
  feature:
  thumb: cicd_cropped.png
  align: # object-center (default) - other options at https://tailwindcss.com/docs/object-position
  height: # optional. Default = h-48 md:h-1/3
---

*This post is part of a series of posts for ILE local development with VSCODE, the Code4i extension, and Gitlab Ci.  Our [previous post](/2023/05/08/ile-cicd-part-3-configuring-bob) discussed configuring Bob as our build tool.*

## Is There Lint in Your Code?

Code lint is much the same as lint that you find in the physical world - a small, annoying, persistent problem that accumulates over time.  As developers, we strive to write code that error free and follows styling characteristics.  A code linter is an important tool that helps with this.  It allows you to define rules that help to keep your code free from certain errors, and conform to a specified style, or format.  In other words, when you use a code linter, your code will look great, and be less prone to problems.

The amazing developers of the [RPGLE](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HalcyonTechLtd.vscode-rpgle) extension for **Visual Studio Code** provide linting for our fully free-form RPGLE programs.  Here is how you set it up.

## Installation

In part 2 of our ILE CiCd series, we installed the [IBM i Development Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HalcyonTechLtd.ibm-i-development-pack), which is a set of extensions that includes the RPGLE extension - so if you have done that, you are good to continue.  If you haven't, please go back to [ILE CiCd Pipeline with Gitlab - Part 2 - Local Development Setup](/2023/05/08/ile-cicd-part-2-local-development-setup/) and get it done first, before attempting any of the steps on this page.

## Configuration

Setting up the RPGLE linter is very simple to do.  

1. Open an RPGLE source file 
2. Open the Command Palette by pressing F1, or Ctrl+Shift+P, or use the menus **View, Command Pallette**
3. Search for RPGLE and select RPGLE: Open RPGLE lint configuration
4. The starter config is added to your project as **.vscode/rpglint.json**

<video src="/assets/video/ILE-CICD-LINT-CONFIG.mp4" autoplay muted loop controls class="object-cover w-full h-full"></video>

## Customization

Customization of the lint rules happens in the file that was added, **.vscode/rpglint.json**.  The RPGLE extension provides a schema for this file, which means you can use autocomplete to explore what options there are.  So open the file, hit Ctrl+Space, and start exploring the different options.

If your curious, you can also check out the schema [here](https://github.com/codefori/vscode-rpgle/blob/main/schemas/rpglint.json), to know what all the different options and rules are.

## Format Document

Use the **Format Document (Shift+Alt+F)** context menu item to apply formatting to a selection of code, or you can format the whole document using the **Format Document** on the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P).





